# Recognizing-CoffeeShops

Human culture, throughout the years, has been influenced and shaped around coffee consumption [7]. Recently, there has been an effort for high-quality coffee in coffee marketing. This gave a rise to the so-called ’third-wave’ coffee movement of specialty coffee shops. This greatly differs from mass-consumption, chain stores whose aim is not on high quality but rather on accommodating as many customers as possible. In this project, we aim to build a model that identifies the visual differences between a specialty coffee shop and a well-established store. We propose to investigate this international cultural phenomenon under a data science lens, understanding how it has evolved in different locations worldwide, and what aspects of a particular establishment are dominantly linked to and influenced by this third wave of coffee. We propose to attack this problem by collecting data from crowd-based online review platforms, such as Yelp [11], and employ existing deep learning methodologies and interpretation techniques that will sift through the data in order to identify different visual factors linked to third-wave coffee shops. While these visual features are difficult in nature for our model to identify, there are clues and hints that point to the logic of our models image classification. Further improvements are needed to shed more light towards what makes a specialty coffee shop visually different from popular coffee shops and how this translates to its quality.
